.Dd April 18, 2023
.Dt DOMAINCHECK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm domaincheck
.Nd check security aspects of a second-level domain name
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Vhv
.Op Fl f Ar format
.Op Fl r Ar resolver
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility performs a number of DNS-based checks on the
domain names given as input.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width _r_resolver_
.It Fl V
Print version number and exit.
.It Fl f Ar format
Specify the output format.
Valid formats are 'csv', 'json', and 'text' (default:
\'text').
for details.
.It Fl h
Print a short help message and exit.
.It Fl r Ar resolver
Use the given resolver for DNS lookups (default: stub
resolver).
See
.Xr "RESOLVER"
for details.
.It Fl t Ar type
Specify the type of check to perform (default: all).
See
.Xr "DETAILS"
for a description of the supported checks.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
Many security mechanisms can (only) be set on the
second-level domain name, yet have a broad and often
times not entirely obvious impact on all of its child
domains.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility can be used to perform a quick and simple
assessment of a number of such checks.
It will read second-level domain names from stdin one
name per line and then perform the following checks:
.Bl -tag -width mta_sts_
.It \fBCAA\fR
Identify whether the domain has any CAA records sets.
See RFC8659.
.It \fBDMARC\fR
Identify whether DMARC is set for the given domain.
See RFC7489.
.It \fBDNSKEY\fR
Identify whether the domain is has a DNSKEY record and
if so, whether it has a valid DNSSEC signature.
See RFC4034.
.It \fBMX\fR
Identify whether the domain has any MX records set.
If so, check for the existence of a "Null MX" service
record.
See RFC7505.
.It \fBMTA-STS\fR
Identify whether the domain uses SMTP MTA Strict
Transport Security.
See RFC8461.
.It \fBSPF\fR
Identify whether the domain uses the Sender Policy
Framework.
See RFC7208.
.It \fBTLS-RPT\fR
Identify whether the domain uses SMTP TLS Reporting.
See RFC8460.
.It \fBTXT\fR
Report on any additional DNS TXT records not relating
to any of the above.
.It \fBZONEMD\fR
Report on the presence of the ZONEMD record.
See RFC8976.
.El
.Pp
Each of these checks can be specified to the
.Fl t
flag;
multiple checks can be specified as a comma-separated
list or as repeated flags.
If no list of checks is specified, then
.Nm
will perform all of the above checks.
.Sh RESOLVER
By default,
.Nm
will perform DNS lookups against the default stub
resolver via the operating system's standard domain
name resolution library.
.Pp
To use a specific resolver, the user may use the
.Fl r
flag and provide a hostname or IP address, in which
case
.Nm
will directly query that resolver.
.Pp
Finally, if the user specifies the special string
\'auth' to the
.Fl r
flag, then
.Nm
will attempt to directly query one of the
authoritative nameservers for the given domain.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To perform a full analysis of the supported aspects
for the domain name 'akamai.com':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
echo akamai.com | domaincheck
.Ed
.Pp
To verbosely look up only CAA and SPF information for
the domains found in the file 'domains':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
domaincheck -v -v -t caa,spf <domains
.Ed
.Pp
To generate json output for the information determined
by asking the respective authoritative resolvers of
each CNAME found in the 'akam.ai' zone file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
awk '/CNAME.*\\.$/ { print $NF }' akam.ai | \\
        sort -u |                          \\
        domaincheck -j -r auth
.Ed
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@akamai.com
and
.An Zuza Slawik
.Aq zslawik@akamai.com
in July 2022.
.Sh BUGS
Please file bug reports and feature requests via a PR
in git or by emailing the authors.
